[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: Many of us
remember when the first young
people began appearing in
airports in their orange robes,
blissed out, chanting
Hare Krishna.
It was the first
such public witness
of religious practices of
the East for many Americans,
and it looked strange to us.
Joshua Greene was
one such devotee
of a man with a
remarkable life story.
Swami "Prabhubadha."
And it's actually-- I know
I've mispronounced it already.
I think it's Prabhupada.
But give us his whole
name, because I don't dare
do that on camera.
>> JOSHUA GREENE: OK.
The official honorific name.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> GREENE: His divine grace.
>> GREENE: A.C. Bhaktivedanta
Swami Prabhupada.
>> REGINA: Prabhupada.
>> GREENE: Prabhupada.
>> REGINA: OK.
So thank you for
clarifying that.
And you know, I think to
start this conversation,
before we get into the
life story of Prabhupada,
I want to find out what
it was like for you
as a young devotee, because
I was doing the opposite.
I was on the airplane in my
20s, going to NBC in New York,
and hustling along,
and not very satisfied
with life on a lot of levels.
And you guys were
all blissed out
and I thought, who
are these guys.
And this was 1969 for you
when you started, and tell us
what prompted this
change in your life
and what it felt like
to be seen in this way
by all the strangers passing by,
or if this was even a thought.
>> GREENE: Sure.
What prompted it for me was,
I couldn't make the connection
between my studies at
the Sorbonne in Paris
in French literature
and the real world.
I didn't know what
Stendhal had to do
with me for love or
money, and was ready
for a change of some kind.
It's a question that can
be answered on many levels,
I think psychologically
also, as an only child
of a divorced mother
growing up at a time--
she was liberated
before it was chic,
so I grew up in a very
Jewish intellectual New York
environment, which meant being
open to pretty much anything.
There's another
dimension, which is--
you might call it the
mystery of the world, where
meeting a teacher is a gift.
You can't plot that
sociologically,
or historically,
or psychologically.
You can just be
appreciative for that.
What it was like
putting on robes--
>> REGINA: First,
where were you?
>> GREENE: Yeah.
I was in Paris and
then went to London.
Someone in Paris, an early
disciple of Prabhupada,
said, you know, you
should go to London
because the devotees are
recording records at Apple
studios with George Harrison,
and it's a great opportunity.
>> REGINA: What?
What?
>> GREENE: Ding.
Yeah.
I mean, for any of your viewers
who were there at that time,
they know that the Beatles
back in the late '60s were it.
I mean, whatever
they were doing,
we wanted to know
what was going on.
So I did.
I went to London.
>> REGINA: And Prabhupada had
been staying with John Lennon?
>> GREENE: He had been staying
at John and Yoko's home.
Tittenhurst Park, I
think it was called.
And at one point,
they came to him
and said could he
arrange for them
to be reincarnated
together because they
loved each other so much.
Prabhupada smiled,
and shook his head,
and said that's not my business.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GREENE: So I showed up just
a couple of days after he had
left London.
So I missed seeing him.
So that's the first takeaway,
I think, for your viewers.
>> REGINA: OK.
Let's get into the
recording studio.
Why?
What was going on
with that at the time?
>> GREENE: George Harrison had
gotten very turned on by Bhakti
or devotional yoga.
He had gone to India in
'68 with Ravi Shankar.
Then, the following year, he
had been with the Beatles.
It was that same year. '68.
Let me get my dates straight.
'66 with Ravi Shankar
in Srinagar in Kashmir.
Then in '68, he took the other
Beatles to Maharishi's ashram
in Rishikesh.
They weren't into it.
George came back looking
for some spiritual company,
met my godbrothers
and godsisters
who were in London to
start a Krishna temple.
He got very turned on by the
Krishna view of spirituality
and decided he wanted
to give something back.
So he suggested, let's make a
recording of Sanskrit mantras.
And of course, the business
people at Apple studios
had no idea what's going to
come of this Sanskrit thing
with the Ringo Starr drumbeat.
So that's when I showed
up is when George
was recording those records.
>> REGINA: So you had a chance
to brush with him a little bit
too.
>> GREENE: Yeah.
That was an important
influence for me.
I mean, imagine being
19 years old in 1969
and getting to hang
out with George
Harrison and his friends.
So I'm thinking to myself as I'm
sitting there playing harmonium
in this EMI
recording studio, OK.
If I stay with these people,
I get god and the Beatles.
OK, I'm in.
>> REGINA: Let's see.
I could go back to school
and study philosophy or--
>> GREENE: Right.
Or I can be here.
>> REGINA: And so, just
as a tiny little aside,
a divergence for a moment, how
did you find George Harrison
to be as a human being?
>> GREENE: As long as you
approached him and spoke with
him as a human being,
he was there for you.
He was warm, he was friendly,
he was interested in you.
You couldn't hope for a more
engaging conversationalist.
He was funny.
He had a great sense of humor.
Very energetic guy.
He would sometimes bounce
back and foot from one foot
to the other, because he was
just so excited about life.
If you looked at him with
that little glint in your eye
like, oh, I'm with a Beatle now,
he would walk the other way.
He did not want to reinforce
that Maya illusory material
identity for anyone,
including himself, anymore.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
Yeah.
So anyway, we'll get--
in the story, as we progress
through Swami's life,
we'll get to that
part of the story
and other expressions
of it, artistically,
and how he just kind
of blew up, literally,
in America in a good way.
But OK.
So let's start now with,
once you put the robes on.
Now, let's get to
your story first.
Where did you start
putting the robes on,
and you were one of
the people in the park.
>> GREENE: In London, when
I first visited the Krishna
temple there in December of
'69, this was still bell bottoms
and, you know, that whole scene.
So in a sense, putting on
robes, and painting yourself,
and wearing beads wasn't
all that big a change.
We were doing that anyway.
>> REGINA: Because we had long
hair and we were wearing beads
anyway.
>> GREENE: But it
was a psychic shift.
I mean, French
sociologist Emile Durkheim
would describe it as anomie.
It's an interesting word.
"A-N-O-M-I-E."
When you're in the normal
world, the everyday world,
the common world, you
know what the rules are.
You know how you're
supposed to behave.
You know how people
are going to respond,
how do you respond to them,
how to talk, what to do.
If you're brought
out of that world
into a new place where you
don't know the rules anymore,
that awkward sense
of displacement,
of not knowing how to behave,
Durkheim called anomie.
There was some anomie
going into devotional life.
How I decided to do it is
still a bit of a mystery to me.
You know, I think it
was experimenting,
as we were doing in those days
anyway, in all kinds of ways.
>> REGINA: Sure.
>> GREENE: As best I've
been able to figure it out,
I liked the people.
They were smart.
They were funny.
I didn't really understand the
Bhagavad-Gita or the imagery
and the iconography.
That was all kind of foreign.
But those people, I
wanted in my life.
I mean, in Christianity, it
would be called fellowship.
In Sanskrit and ashrams,
it's called sangha.
The most important component of
spiritual life is good company.
If you don't have that, all
the mantras in the world
aren't going to do you any
good because you're going
to stop at a certain point.
>> REGINA: Very true.
>> GREENE: Having good
friends, smart people,
fellow journeyers on the path
is the greatest resource.
So they were doing
it and I said, OK.
It's worth an experiment.
So I put on the robes, I put
on the tilak, as it's called,
which is Ganges
clay on the face.
Neck beads.
And we went out on
Oxford Street in London
with the drums and
the hand symbols
chanting (SINGING) Hare Krishna.
Hare Krishna.
Krishna Krishna Hare Hare.
(SPEAKING) And I was
shaking in my boots.
>> REGINA: I bet.
Especially Oxford Street.
>> GREENE: I was saying
what the heck is this.
You know?
How did I get here?
And you want to know how
macabre God's sense of humor is?
The first day I
went out chanting
on Oxford Street, my old
girlfriend from college--
>> REGINA: Oh god.
>> GREENE: Is walking
down the street.
She's visiting London and
I'm going oh my Krishna.
What is this?
>> REGINA: This is like-- those
are those moments I was talking
about.
>> GREENE: I'm getting
chills just remembering.
And she looked at
me and she froze.
Literally.
I'd never seen anyone
freeze quite as dramatically
as she froze.
And her eyes just
kind of bugged out,
and I didn't know what to do.
That's anomie.
I didn't know what to do.
I didn't know how to
respond to her sense
of maybe being afraid,
of not quite knowing
what is she seeing here.
I wish I had done better.
>> REGINA: What did you do?
>> GREENE: I smiled
and I kept walking.
>> REGINA: Oh, you
didn't engage her.
>> GREENE: I didn't.
I didn't know what to say.
>> REGINA: And
she didn't either.
>> GREENE: No.
No, it was-- well,
it made me question,
is this really
what I want to do.
You know.
>> REGINA: Right.
You had to make-- this
was a big choice point,
and it was immediate.
>> GREENE: Yeah.
That was a big
moment right there.
>> REGINA: Immediate
choice point.
First time you put the robes on.
>> GREENE: And maybe the
takeaway there for people is,
as Joe Campbell describes
in the Monomyth Model,
sooner or later, whether
it's by choice or by force
of circumstance,
you will confront--
every one of us will confront--
that moment of a
call to adventure
is what Campbell
describes it, where
you're forced out of
the everyday world
and you're on this trial--
on this trail, rather,
where there are
trials, and confronting them.
I think that might have
been my first trial
was seeing my old girlfriend.
>> REGINA: Well,
that's a big one.
That's-- so does-- and
beyond disconcerting.
And so OK.
You got through that moment.
Your heart slowed down.
You started chanting some more.
You start going into that alpha
state of consciousness, maybe
even beyond that.
And what was that like?
How were you seeing the people
in London respond to you?
It was a crash course
in psychotherapy.
It was kind of an instant
epiphany of not being the body.
I mean, lesson 101 of every
authentic spiritual tradition
is do not be fooled
into thinking
that you are your physical
body or your subtle mind.
That is not who you are.
You are the consciousness that
animates the body and mind,
and there was no more visceral
experience of that for me
in those early
days of my journey
than to be on the
street in London
looking at people
looking at me and seeing
their discomfort, and
their uncertainty,
and sometimes their hostility.
They'd be so afraid of
what they're seeing.
They'd come up, and a
couple of times people
hit me on the head.
>> REGINA: Oh, really?
>> GREENE: Oh, yeah.
I mean, it was so fear-- it
happened in London one time
and it happened in Paris.
I can understand it in Paris.
I mean, here you've got
a country that witnessed
defeat in two world wars.
They saw the face and
the costumes of tyranny.
So I think anyone dressed
in some uniform way behaving
differently would have
unconsciously triggered
that kind of a reaction.
>> REGINA: And overtly
more emotional people.
>> GREENE: Sure.
>> REGINA: Right.
So that's that.
Brits are so restrained.
>> GREENE: Yeah.
Why it happened in London--
>> REGINA: I can't see a
Brit bopping you on the head.
Maybe he'd come from the pub.
>> GREENE: Well,
it's a challenge.
It's throwing down a gauntlet.
>> REGINA: And
when do you think,
with this journey you've been
on so long now and so much
discovered, what was it that was
being triggered in these people
that created such terror?
>> GREENE: Fear of religion.
Scratch an atheist
and what you find
is a regular human being who's
had a really bad encounter
with religion.
>> REGINA: Usually, yes.
>> GREENE: Yeah.
And to literally parade
your faith in public
is existentially threatening
to a lot of people.
And you have to
bear that in mind
if you're going to do that.
If you're going to wear the
cloth and walk your talk,
be prepared that
it's going to be
threatening to certain people.
>> REGINA: And a lot of jeering.
Go get a job.
Why are you wearing
your pajamas?
>> GREENE: Sure.
You can't let throw you.
>> REGINA: Yeah, let
stuff get you down.
But did you feel
in the midst of it
that you were actually
gaining some kind of traction
or shifting consciousness?
Was it-- were you
expecting to have
an effect in your immediate
world of the passers-by,
or did you feel more that
you were infusing the field
with something more joyful?
>> GREENE: Really good question.
You know, well, that's a--
it's taken almost a half century
of Bhakti practice and chanting
of the Krishna
mantra to really get
an insight into that question.
I think in the moment,
it was more a sense
that I have a teacher now.
I have a guru.
Prabhupada.
And he has encouraged us to do
this as an act of compassion
toward others.
>> REGINA: Yet, it
pushed their buttons.
>> GREENE: Well, that's
what a guru does.
A guru pushes buttons.
He is not there to encourage
you in your complacency.
He's there to shake you
out of your complacency
by providing knowledge
and opportunities
for you to stretch
your own boundaries.
>> REGINA: So how--
now, in this in-between place
you are in, still as a novice,
even, how did you
embrace the message
that you're doing
an act of compassion
by chanting Hare Krishna when
all these people passing by
were clearly agitated
or confronted by it?
How did those two--
>> GREENE: Yeah.
Well, as a 19-year-old,
as a 20-year-old,
I think it was more an act of
faith than of real realization.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> GREENE: I trusted my teacher.
I trusted Prabhupada.
And if he said this
is OK, that this
will have a cleansing
effect on people--
the power of mantra
is such that, if it's
chanted in public, even
after the chanters have left,
they've created an atmosphere
such that people walking
through that space--
>> REGINA: That's
what I was asking.
>> GREENE: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: That's the effect.
So tell us, first of all, the
entire mantra, what it means.
It's a simple meaning,
and it has Rama in it.
Not just Krishna.
So tell us what this means.
>> GREENE: Right.
Well, at the base of devotional
practice, Bhakti yoga,
is the chanting of gods' names.
The Krishna mantra
in particular is
referenced in the ancient
Sanskrit texts as effective
in Kali Yuga.
It's kind of a main line,
direct express connection
with divinity.
And the three words of
the mantra, Hare, Krishna,
and Rama, are constructed
in this 16-word order.
Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna,
Krishna Krishna, Hare Hare,
Hare Rama, Hare Rama,
Rama Rama, Hare Hare.
The word Hare is the
evocative of Hara,
which is the name of Radha,
god in feminine form.
And one of the things that
attracted me about the Krishna
practice was that it had the
insight to acknowledge divinity
in both male and female form.
So quite different
from the misogynistic--
>> REGINA: And we're going to
get into that in a little bit.
>> GREENE: Paternalistic
religious traditions.
>> REGINA: Yes.
So it's male-female
deity in form.
>> GREENE: So there was that.
So Hare is an invocation.
It's an appeal to Radha,
god in feminine form,
to accept us in devotional life.
Krishna simply means
the most attractive.
It's a very universal
name for divinity.
Rama means the highest
pleasure possible.
So through effective,
authentic spiritual practice,
yogis encounter
the highest bliss.
So that's the meaning
of those three words.
>> REGINA: It's interesting.
I'm just thinking of,
you know, Greek mythology
with Zeus and Hera.
Hara and Hera, again,
the female compliment.
And this seems to play out.
The Vedas preceded the Greek
mythology or the Greek gods
in our understanding
in the scribing of it.
>> GREENE: Well, if you go
to authentic traditions,
whether it be Greek, or whether
it's the ancient Christian
mystic traditions, or the
Sufi tradition in Islam,
or kabbalah in Judaism,
you find equivalence.
It's not a new idea.
I mean, Shekhinah, for
example, the feminine divinity
in Judaism.
The mystic bride marriage
in Christianity--
>> REGINA: Which is not
acknowledged by the majority--
>> GREENE: No.
It's too threatening.
>> REGINA: In the
Christian world.
So the Christian world's
quite absent of that,
for the most part.
I was raised a Lutheran.
There were no women.
They were just bells.
OK.
Good.
Thank you for explaining
what that means.
It's important to
understand what was
being projected into the field.
Now I would like-- and
thank you for sharing
your personal story.
That's really interesting, about
running into your ex-girlfriend
the first day.
>> GREENE: I haven't told
that story before, by the way.
>> REGINA: Oh my god.
I mean, I can feel the pain.
>> GREENE: You're
bringing it out in me.
>> REGINA: I think our viewers
very much have appreciated it.
Let's now go into Prabhupada,
because this is a character,
an individual incarnated
in the human body
that, by the age of
five, he was digging
all the ceremonies passing by.
He wanted his own.
Explain the little
cart, explain--
he was five, six years old--
what he asked his parents for,
and how it was affecting him,
and its place in the
ceremonial rites.
>> GREENE: Sure.
Well, thank you for
inviting me to talk
about my favorite topic,
which is my teacher.
Just a little bit
of context here.
Prabhupada was born into
British colonial India in 1896.
So he wasn't even born
in the 20th century.
Born in the 19th century.
And the image of Hindu
culture at that time
was not particularly flattering.
The Christian missionaries who
had come mostly from England,
but from elsewhere, had
taken it upon themselves
to convert Hindus to the true
light of the Christian church.
And the one offense that
they found most egregious
was what they
called idol worship.
Of all the deities in India,
of all the gods worshipped
in India, can you guess
who was the most egregious?
>> REGINA: Krishna.
>> GREENE: Krishna.
Why Krishna?
Because he's the god of love.
The image of Krishna
playing his flute
and dancing with the
cowherd girls of his village
was everything objectionable to
the enlightened European mind.
>> REGINA: Probably close to
even obscene because it would
denote something that could
even be sensual, sexual.
>> GREENE: Absolutely.
In fact, there are quotes from
missionaries of the day saying
this licentious,
heathen practice
must be rejected
if Hindus are ever
going to take their place
at the table of the world.
>> REGINA: Under us.
>> GREENE: Absolutely.
≫> REGINA: Right.
>> GREENE: So here
was Prabhupada,
born into an orthodox
Krishna worshipping family,
a Vaishnava family.
His father, Gour Mohan
De had other children,
but he saw something in
this young boy, his son,
who was named Abhay Charan--
that's the A.C. in his name--
meaning one who is fearless
having taken shelter
at the feet of the lord.
That's the definition
of those two names.
This young man,
Abhay's father said,
will succumb neither to the
propaganda of the British
nor the distortions of
the Hindu intelligentsia.
Now, what he meant by that was
the reaction of the Bhadralok,
as they were called, the Kolkata
Hindu intellectual class,
to this infiltration by
European Christianity
was, OK, what do we
have to do to make
Hinduism acceptable to
the rest of the world.
So rather than educating
themselves deeper
about Krishna,
their conclusion was
let's just strip away
everything that the Europeans
find objectionable.
>> REGINA: What's that leave?
>> GREENE: What it leaves is a
kind of monistic pablum which
says don't be offended by these
beginners in spiritual life who
are worshiping
Krishna and deities.
>> REGINA: Primitives.
>> GREENE: That's right.
These are undeveloped
minds trying
to grasp very
sophisticated concepts,
and when they've
evolved more, they'll
leave behind Krishna, and
the worship of Krishna,
and all that stuff.
And so you have these two
very powerful energies
conspiring against personalism.
Now, it's very
important to understand
that what Prabhupada's
contribution was,
was to re-establish the
validity of a personal divinity,
and that's what the Krishna
movement is all about.
What he started was the
Western world branch
of this ancient,
personalist tradition
of Bhakti or devotional yoga.
So he's born at a time when
these powerful influences are
conspiring against him.
>> REGINA: Let me add one
more thing here, if you would,
to have you explain.
Not only that, the
Brits were really
creating extreme divisiveness
between all of the religions
within India that had
previously live side by side.
Hindus against
Muslims and so on.
>> GREENE: Sure.
Yeah, in fact,
Prabhupada's neighborhood
was arbitrarily segregated
by the British into ghettos.
There was a Muslim ghetto
and there was a Hindu ghetto.
So from a young age,
Prabhupada saw the consequence
of that kind of
bigotry, that kind
of religious prejudice on
the part of the British
and part of the Raj.
And so imagine
growing up, perhaps
akin to what it's like being
black or Hispanic in America.
You know.
You're not the mainstream here.
>> REGINA: And before, there was
this cross-pollination between
the cultures and religions.
People, families were friends.
>> GREENE: They lived
together side by side.
Children played together.
People did business together.
It wasn't a problem until it was
made a problem by the British,
initially through census.
On their census forms,
they enforced people
to say what is your religion.
Are you Hindu or are you Muslim?
Before that, Hinduism
was never a religion.
It was not a religion.
It was a spiritual practice.
The name Hindu isn't
even indigenous to India.
It's a name that was
given by the British
in their census forms.
The word originally
came from the Mughals,
who pronounced
their S's like H's.
So the people living on the
other side of the Sindh River
became the Hinds.
And that's where the
British got the idea
of calling indigenous
religions of India Hinduism.
But you never find that word
in any of the Sanskrit text.
The wisdom texts of India do
not mention Hinduism anywhere.
>> REGINA: That's
interesting to note.
So now you have Hindus, Muslims.
You have the Brits
overseeing this.
>> GREENE: All artificial.
>> REGINA: And you're having
the essence of the religion
stripped down to some almost
scientific, bare bones reality.
Right?
And so now you have
this little boy
who's being brought
up to resist this.
>> GREENE: Well, he is.
And again, going back to that
Joseph Campbell Monomyth model,
there is a moment of
what Campbell calls
the meeting with the mentor.
You hear something
in your life that you
may have heard 100 times
before, but somehow,
this person saying it
to you, it gets through.
That was when young Prabhupada,
Abhay, met his guru,
Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati.
It was in 1922.
He was at a place
called the Gaudiya Math,
which was Bhaktisiddhanta's
spiritual schools,
a series of them.
And Bhaktisiddhanta,
who is a very erudite
Krishna worshipper, when
he saw this young man--
Prabhupada at that time
must've been 26 years old--
the first thing that
Bhaktisiddhanta said to him
is, you look to me like a
very intelligent fellow.
Why don't you take
this Krishna teachings
and bring them to the west?
Talk to people in English
about the Bhagavad Gita,
and the chanting of
the Krishna mantra,
and living a devotional life.
To this day, I wonder what that
must have felt like for him,
on the first meeting
with his guru,
to be given this life mission.
Go to the west.
The idea of leaving India.
He had never been outside India.
It was hard to get
outside India in 1922.
You couldn't do it.
>> REGINA: Right.
And seeing the influence of
the West on their own culture.
>> GREENE: Exactly.
>> REGINA: You know, wow.
≫> GREENE: Exactly.
Exactly.
And the only
impression that people
had in India at that time of
America-- because the West
meant the United States.
Right-- was from
"National Geographic"
magazine, "Life" magazine.
You know, the publications
that were distributed there.
>> REGINA: Decadent savages.
>> GREENE: You name it.
You know, nightclubs,
and speakeasies, and--
>> REGINA: Drinking.
>> GREENE: Drinking.
≫> REGINA: Eating meat.
≫> GREENE: And women
with short skirts.
I mean, you know,
in Hindu culture,
that's like, oh my gosh.
What is that?
So the idea of voluntarily going
into that hell to tell people
give up meat--
>> REGINA: Give up drinking.
>> GREENE: Give up drinking.
Give up sex outside of
your life partnership.
Give up gambling.
Give-- you have to be crazy.
>> REGINA: Right.
Didn't Seem like a
natural fit at the time.
>> GREENE: Not the first thing
you'd think about as a career
path.
Right.
>> REGINA: Well, but he-- there
was something in him that--
as I mentioned that cute little
story of when he was little--
was so devotional from
such an early age.
Clearly, his being had
incarnated to take this on.
He was making his
own displays in
the great religious
celebrations of his little cart
with Krishna, and little
symbols, and little drums.
>> GREENE: Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
He took to it quite naturally.
And you're putting your
finger on a difficult issue
for me, Regina.
I had to figure out in writing
"Swami in a Strange Land"
how much to honor that
vision of Prabhupada
as this divine soul who had
come into the world, God's
missionary, to essentially
bring salvation to humanity.
>> REGINA: It's obvious, or
he wouldn't have had those
proclivities as a
tiny little boy.
>> GREENE: It was there.
It was clearly there
from previous lives.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> GREENE: But if I wanted
people to be able to identify
with him, if I wanted people
to take seriously the teachings
that he brought for us-- he
wasn't teaching Hinduism.
So how do I put that in a
biography of this person
in a way that makes it
acceptable and real?
So the struggle for me as
the author of this book
was to make him human enough
that readers would consider,
yeah.
He came.
All right.
I understand this
person came for me.
I'm involved in this somehow.
And yeah.
>> REGINA: But the truth is,
that's why I resonated with
the story, because obviously--
and you're talking to a lot
of very beautiful minds right
now who are watching this,
and they understand
these things,
that beings come with purpose.
He was pre-wired for this
purpose before his incarnation
and he was displaying his
own passion and ecstasy
at a very early age for this.
>> GREENE: That's quite true.
He had a small Ratha
Yatra cart, which
is a decorated model
of the large Rath carts
that are pulled
through the streets
each year in a big festival
called the Ratha Yatra
festival, the chariot festival.
These are six, seven story tall
huge, monumental, extremely
heavy chariots with big wheels
that weigh several tons,
and they're pulled through the
streets in the town of Puri
in Orissa by
millions of pilgrims
on these huge,
thick, long ropes.
Prabhupada was always
excited by the description
of this festival as a young
boy and wanted a chariot
like that of his
own, so his father
bought him a little
wooden model,
and Prabhupada staged his
own Ratha Yatra festival
in his neighborhood
with all the kids.
Called the kids around,
hey, you play drums.
>> REGINA: His like
three feet tall.
≫> GREENE: He was organizing
stuff even at age six.
So this was-- you know, he
was showing his proclivities
at a very early age.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
And I just bring that
up so people understand,
he came pre-wired
for this mission.
>> GREENE: It was there.
It was there.
But truth be told--
and again, if you
haven't figured it out,
I am a Campbell fan--
it ain't easy, even for the
avatars and the great souls.
It ain't easy.
Nobody should have that idea
that, oh, well, a great soul.
He never suffered.
He never-- you know.
>> REGINA: No, of course not.
>> GREENE: The suffering,
if anything, was greater.
>> REGINA: Oh, I mean, his
life is really amazing.
You just have to point to
what happened after this.
And he did have a proper--
well, not British.
Scottish education.
Right?
>> GREENE: Yeah.
Scottish Church College.
>> REGINA: English, economics,
and philosophy, right?
>> GREENE: Yeah.
Westernized.
>> REGINA: Much like
Gandhi's, Sri Aurobindo,
and a lot of them.
>> GREENE: And he was a Gandhi
man for the early years of his
life, up until the time
he met his guru in '22.
He was an [INAUDIBLE] He
was wearing khadi cloth
like the Gandhi followers, he'd
given up his college degree
since Gandhi had said let's
reject all British titles,
and he was an organizer
in his neighborhood.
>> REGINA: Peaceful
disobedience.
>> GREENE: Absolutely.
He was right there
with all of that.
When he started
studying with his guru
Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati,
what that happened for him--
and if you want to call it the
mission unfolding or some level
of consciousness coming to the
surface in the life of a divine
being, however you
wish to describe it,
all of a sudden, his
India-centric focus of a life
went global and he
saw the possibility
of bringing true spiritual
knowledge to the entire world,
and the idea of
re-spiritualizing humanity
became a reality for him.
I always ask myself what is
it that compels people to go
past the limits that
they set for themselves.
What is it that allows us to
do more than we think ourselves
capable of doing?
All right.
Let's put this in some context.
What are the basic
teachings of Bhagavad Gita?
The basic teachings
of the Gita are
that you are an eternal soul.
In this moment and
forever, you are divine.
You are beautiful.
You are perfect.
You are complete.
You lack for nothing.
No one can hurt you.
You're immortal.
You're an immortal being.
So what is it like
to live like that?
I mean, it's one thing to
intellectually, yeah, OK.
Yeah, I get it.
I'm a soul.
I'm an eternal soul.
Imagine living like that.
You can live like that.
Consciousness may be
covered over right now.
For example, Gil brought
me here in his car.
If he left his car in the
parking lot of Gaia TV
for a week, it'd get filthy.
Cover it with dust, if it
rains, there'd be mud, you know.
Just by being in the material
world, things get covered.
That's true of
consciousness as well.
We don't recall ourselves
as spiritual beings
because we've taken
so many births
that we've forgotten that.
The yoga practices,
the spiritual practices
do not impose
anything new on us.
They reawaken something that's
already been there forever.
So it's a return of memory,
which is interesting
because there are parallels
in Holocaust studies
as well of the
return of traumatized
or suppressed memory.
The chanting of the Krishna
mantra is for that purpose.
It's to revitalize our knowledge
of ourselves as divine beings.
Imagine how
liberating that would
be to live like that,
knowing yourself
to be that no one can hurt you.
If I know that you can't
hurt me, that frees me up,
doesn't it?
It means I can be here
and I can listen to you.
>> REGINA: You don't have
to be defensive, aggressive.
It's all gone.
>> GREENE: Don't
have to be defensive.
Don't have to be aggressive.
Don't have to be wondering,
what's in this for me.
You know, I can be here for you.
I can listen to you and respond
to you as a spiritual being.
What an amazing thing that is.
Why should I love you?
It's not because I've got
some lovely hallmark card that
says, oh, God's in your heart.
No, it's because you're
a soul just like I am,
and you're in that body
and contending with all
that that implies just
like I've been doing.
And so I get you a little
bit, and we're family.
I love you because we're family.
Now, what an amazing peace
formula that would be.
>> REGINA: And that's
where he was living from.
>> GREENE: That's exactly right.
He had come to this point,
studying under his guru,
really imbibing this
from childhood, you know,
that you are not the body.
You are an eternal soul,
where he saw the possibilities
of going global with this.
Wow.
>> REGINA: Right.
Yeah.
Oh my gosh.
What it took for him to do that.
So first of all, let's
get into his life.
He had to support himself.
Interestingly, he had
an arranged marriage,
but it was almost--
the idea initially was to
arrange a marriage that
wouldn't be just so
overpoweringly lovely that you
can't leave it when it's time
to heed the call of Krishna.
Right?
>> GREENE: Well said.
Yeah.
>> REGINA: So he didn't have
huge inducements to throw his
life completely in that
way, into family life,
but he did have to provide.
He was a pharmacist.
>> GREENE: Yes, he was, and
a very responsible person.
I think that that
bears mentioning.
When I showed the original
manuscript for "Swami
in a Strange Land"
to my editor--
really wonderful
editor whom I've been
working with for a long time--
she said, you know, this
is a gripping story.
This is a really exciting story,
but there's one thing I just--
I love Prabhupada by reading
your biography of him,
but how could he have
ever left his family?
That was the one thing.
And not just Kyra--
Kyra Ryan is her name--
but others as well.
How could he ever do that?
And so I had to get
into that in the book.
>> REGINA: This is not uncommon
for activism on all levels,
though, in India.
Often, the family
was left behind
so the man fulfilled what
he felt his destiny was.
>> GREENE: Sure.
I remember one interview
with Nelson Mandela where
the reporter asked, is there
anything about your life
that you regret.
And he says, yeah.
I wish I'd spent more
time with my family.
That's a tough call.
>> REGINA: It's a tough call,
but he had a higher calling
than family in his heart.
>> GREENE: Yeah.
And it's important for you, and
me, and viewers, and everybody
to understand that there
is nothing incompatible--
this is an important thing.
Took me a long time
to understand this.
There is nothing incompatible
with living your life
and being a thoroughly
spiritual person.
Marriage, children,
job, responsibilities,
Little League, whatever.
You know?
You know, there is
nothing inherently
unspiritual about any of that.
>> REGINA: Some would argue more
so, because it takes so much
more to stay in a state of
awareness, and consciousness,
and devotion amidst real life
than to sequester yourself,
which is the easier
path in many views.
>> GREENE: Well, you've
just put your finger
on Prabhupada's core teaching,
which was stay where you are
and see Krishna in the details.
See God in the details of
the life you already have.
Don't go off coveting
some life that you--
>> REGINA: In a cave.
Right.
>> GREENE: --wish to
have or don't have.
All the tools of
your enlightenment
have already been provided
in the life you have now.
Just acknowledge them and
be appreciative for what
you've got.
>> REGINA: Very true.
>> GREENE: Now, that's tough
when your situation is painful.
>> REGINA: His was painful.
But he was also-- he was
living both realities,
but in an extreme way.
I mean, as I understand,
by this time,
he was chanting
seven hours a day--
Hare Krishna seven hours a day.
>> GREENE: Yes.
And in that sense,
I think we have
to acknowledge there's
something extra human about him.
>> REGINA: Yes.
Extra devoted.
>> GREENE: Something
unusual there.
He was one of a kind.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
He was finding his
solace in that,
and his connection in
that, his motivation
in chanting Hare Krishna
seven hours a day.
>> GREENE: Can I tell
you a little story?
>> REGINA: Mhmm.
>> GREENE: The first
time I met my teacher,
the first time I met Prabhupada,
I was all of 20 years old
or whatever, and I had been
initiated already for a year.
And the idea of
meeting him in person
was like, I'm a giddy
little school girl going
to meet my hero here.
And the first thing he said--
I ran back to the house that
was our temple outside Paris
and was the first one
there, so it was just him
and me in the house.
Him and his servant who
had driven him there.
And I hear from his
room, Yogesvara.
That's my spiritual name.
So I came running in and
offered my respects to him,
and he was sitting there
chanting on his beads.
His eyes were closed.
And the first
thing he said to me
was, you know, throughout
my entire life,
I have never forgotten Krishna.
He said, even when I was a
little boy, I had my dolls.
He called his Radha
Krishna deities dolls.
And he put his
hand out to show me
that they were a child's set
of Radha Krishna deities.
Why he chose that to be the
first thing that he would say
to me, I'm still meditating
on, but it was significant,
because what he
was doing, I think,
was reassuring me that
you can trust this
and you can trust me.
I'm never going to hurt you.
I have your spiritual
interests at heart.
My whole life has been
Krishna conscious,
and I have no other interests.
I have no selfish motive here.
That's a rare soul.
>> REGINA: Indeed.
So at this point, let's
go back a little bit.
He was devoted to the higher
principles of the Bhagavad
Gita.
Right?
And was it called the
Bhagavatam that was, he said,
is a post-doctoral course--
>> GREENE: Oh, you've
done your homework.
This is great.
>> REGINA: --in these teachings
which took everything to a much
higher, almost cosmic level.
And I bring that up, if you
can expand on that a bit,
so we can go into this
deep concern, which
is true of many
people, even now,
about the Kali Yuga and
implications of the Kali Yuga
stage.
≫> GREENE: OK.
Wow.
That's a mouthful right there.
They're the basics
of spiritual life.
You know, nonviolence,
compassion
for others, a healthy diet,
keep your nose clean literally
and metaphorically.
Don't get involved
with activities
that are contrary to
your spiritual interests.
Keep good company.
I mean, these are
all very foundational
behavioral guidelines for
healthy spiritual life.
Where does that take you?
You go to yoga classes.
Right?
OK.
So now you're all mellow.
First of all, how
long does it last?
Usually about 10 minutes.
You leave the yoga studio and
wham, Kali Yuga's right back.
>> REGINA: Someone just
cuts you off on the road.
≫> GREENE: Road rage ready.
So the question is, how
do you sustain that.
How do you go into
Savasana and maintain
that sense of peacefulness
throughout the day?
That requires study and it
requires deeper knowledge
of the philosophy behind
yoga and other spiritual
disciplines.
Again, going back to 101.
You're not the body.
You're an eternal soul.
What is the nature of spirit?
What is the nature
of that consciousness
that animates your body?
The foundations of
that understanding
are in the Bhagavad
Gita, which is
the core essential
text of Bhakti
culture, devotional culture.
When you've mastered
those basics
and these things become
second nature for you,
you're no longer struggling
with staying away from alcohol,
and drugs, or whatever.
You're staying in a
different kind of high now.
George Harrison once said
in order to go higher,
you have to stop getting high.
There's a nice
way of putting it.
The postgraduate study
of the Bhagavad Gita
is called the Srimad Bhagavatam.
It's also known as
the Bhagavata Purana.
The Puranas are the histories
not only of this universe,
but other universes.
Prabhupada's life mission was
translating and commenting
these books for us
here in the West,
in America, in
Europe, in Asia so
that these millennial
teachings would
be understandable in
the context of the life
we know, the world we live in.
That was his brilliant gift.
>> REGINA: And to critical
acclaim of all kinds.
His translations, apparently,
are just almost flawless.
>> GREENE: They're
standard in courses,
university courses
and yoga studios.
These are now the
standard texts.
The Bhaktivedanta commentaries
on the Isha Upanishad,
Bhagavad Gita, the Bhagavatam.
These are now the standard
references for those texts.
>> REGINA: And they
came at a great price.
This man up at 3:00
and 4:00 in the morning
hand writing this year,
after year, after year,
after year, and scraping
together pennies
to have even one volume printed.
I mean, the dedication
is probably--
I don't know that I've
ever read a story of anyone
more dedicated to
a single theme.
>> GREENE: People ask, when
you wrote "Swami in a Strange
Land," were there
any real surprises.
That was maybe one of
the biggest for me was,
I had not understood the
depth of his sacrifice for me.
For us to have gone through
what he went through,
to translate, comment these
books, beg, save, scrimp.
>> REGINA: For a few rupees.
>> GREENE: To get a little money
to go buy paper during war time
India where these things were
rationed so that he could print
these books, so that when
he got on that boat to come
to America, he would have
something to substantiate his
teachings that people
would understand.
He had not invented this.
This is traditional
knowledge going back
before recorded history.
I had not understood
how great that sacrif--
>> REGINA: Well, I found
that really just shocking,
because this went on, well,
not for just a few years.
Not even just a few decades.
As he struggled to keep
his business afloat,
finally, he had to
separate from his family
because the moment came where
he had to devote his life fully
to this body of work that he
had really made available,
and now, I think, because
we have some time left,
but I don't want to ignore
this, he's almost 70 years old--
>> GREENE: Yeah, at
this point in the story.
≫> REGINA: When he finally
got a ticket and clearances
to go to America.
>> GREENE: Yeah.
It was 1965.
≫> REGINA: And
he got the message.
He received the message from
Sarasvati when he was 26.
It took till he was 70 to get it
together and make that journey.
>> GREENE: He calculated.
Who goes to America without
money, at my age especially?
>> REGINA: He was feeling old.
>> GREENE: He was 70 years old.
So everyone's discouraging him.
>> REGINA: And poor.
Very poor.
≫> GREENE: Very poor.
When he became a
renunciant in 1959,
that meant giving up all
attachment to business,
moneymaking ventures, rarely
seeing family, having no fixed
residence.
You constantly travel to teach
for the benefit of others.
It finally became clear, through
dreams, in large measure,
that he had to
just go and really
just completely throw himself
on God's mercy and Krishna's
grace.
I don't know how he
got on that boat.
≫> REGINA: I don't either.
I mean, he got on it, though,
and he had heart failure.
>> GREENE: Two heart attacks.
≫> REGINA: Two heart attacks.
≫> GREENE: On the way over.
≫> REGINA: On the
trip, right off the bat.
Sick to his stomach
on these roiling seas.
≫> GREENE: Nearly died.
≫> REGINA: Nearly died.
And got to New
York city and said,
oy, why did you send
me to this awful place.
>> GREENE: I don't
know about the oy part,
but it's the right sentiment.
>> REGINA: That's for you.
>> GREENE: This is what Campbell
would have called the belly
of the whale, the
point of no return.
There's no turning back now.
He's left India.
He's crossed the
ocean at age 70.
Most people are setting
up their folding chairs
on Collins Avenue in Miami.
>> REGINA: And he had $8,
an umbrella, a suitcase,
and his books.
>> GREENE: That's it,
and a bag of cereal.
>> REGINA: And cereal.
≫> GREENE:
Because he thought,
if I can't find
anything else to eat,
I'll mix this with water
and have a few pancakes.
So he gets off the boat.
You have to imagine the scene.
And this is the
belly of the beast.
New York, 1965.
Right?
It's a chaotic world here.
Turning to the left,
turning to the right,
not knowing where
to go, where these--
>> REGINA: The
times of "Mad Men."
You know, Madison Avenue.
>> GREENE: This crazy.
>> REGINA: Crazy materialism.
>> GREENE: Yeah.
It's the "Mad Men" era.
Exactly right.
>> REGINA: "Mad Men" era.
Yeah.
>> GREENE: So all of this
advertising, you know,
miniskirts, hippies,
the whole thing.
>> REGINA: Women are
smoking along with the men.
>> GREENE: And what does he do?
He starts chanting.
How's that for a game plan?
Sits down on the grass next
to the sign that says keep off
the grass in the park in New
York City and starts chanting,
Hare Krishna.
>> REGINA: Well, that's
all he knew to do,
and that's what he
was there to do.
>> GREENE: He knew.
Well, he had a faith that
surpasseth understanding.
He knew that this
was going to happen.
It had been prophesized that--
there had been predictions
that the chanting
would be heard worldwide for
hundreds and hundreds of years.
>> REGINA: And temples
would be built--
>> GREENE: There would
be temples worldwide.
≫> REGINA: --throughout
the West devoted to it.
>> GREENE: So at
a certain point,
I think he must have understood
that God has chosen me
to fulfill these ancient
processes that the chanting
of the names of Krishna
would go worldwide.
>> REGINA: And Sarasvati
must've known that too.
≫> GREENE: Bhaktisiddhanta
Sarasvati understood,
and he had asked other students
to go to the west and none
of them had had much success.
And in Prabhupada, I
think, he found his vehicle
for that mission.
>> REGINA: So he arrives.
He has one kind of contact.
>> GREENE: Sort of a
contact is a Dr. Mishra,
later known as
Brahmananda Sarasvati--
he's passed away now--
who was one of the early
yoga teachers in America.
Had a yoga studio
up in the west '70s
and was happy to find a
fellow Bengali and a teacher.
They had their
philosophic differences,
but he asked Prabhupada to lead
the chanting for his students,
and eventually--
>> REGINA: His yoga classes.
Yeah.
≫> GREENE: And the
yoga classes there.
Exactly.
And eventually, Prabhupada
developed his own followers,
and they found a little
place down on the Lower East
Side, which was the first
Krishna temple in the world
outside of India.
26 2nd Avenue.
And he had classes there,
and there's that funny story
that you and I were
talking about earlier
about the drunkards who--
>> REGINA: See, I loved that
story for a couple of reasons.
And he had a little group
of young people, like you,
but in New York prior to you,
who were really taken with what
he was trying to project.
And so they started
following him.
They were wearing robes.
They invited others in,
and little gatherings
were happening.
And at one of these
gatherings, a drunk man just
stumbled in off the streets.
>> GREENE: Stumbles
in off the street.
>> REGINA: All, you
know, disheveled.
>> GREENE: Smelly.
≫> REGINA: Smelly.
>> GREENE: It was like-- yeah.
≫> REGINA: It was like whoa.
What's going on?
>> GREENE: Basically, you
know, your typical New Yorker,
basically.
And he kind of
weaves his way over
to Prabhupada,
who's sitting at one
end of this tiny little
storefront location
where he gave class and wanted
to give a gift of some kind
to the Swami.
So from the coat pocket, whips
out this bag of toilet paper
and plunks it down on the podium
where Prabhupada is lecturing,
and he stumbles back and plops
himself down in the room,
and promptly falls
asleep against the wall.
And Prabhupada,
without missing a beat,
says to the few
people who were there
in those days for
classes, just see.
Surface to others is the nature,
the Dharma of all beings.
This fellow may not be in
order, but he was thinking,
let me give some service.
He said, there it is.
Custom made for the class.
And he started another Kirtan.
This guy wakes up, stands
up and starts dancing.
>> REGINA: Right.
Dancing around and chanting.
>> GREENE: And chanting
with the devotees.
And came back
about a week later,
clean shaven, fresh clothing,
sober as morning dew,
intoxicated by this
new kind of ecstasy
that he discovered with
Prabhupada and Krishna
consciousness.
>> REGINA: And as you
comment in the book,
a new type of intoxication.
>> GREENE: New kind, yes.
≫> REGINA: For this man.
And to see that,
of his own accord,
this happened so
quickly that his spirit
was speaking to him in
this way, such a profound
and quick manner.
>> GREENE: It doesn't have to
take grueling, mind-searing,
gut-rending decades to
achieve enlightenment.
>> REGINA: No, not at all.
≫> GREENE: It really doesn't.
≫> REGINA: Well, so
now he is starting to--
"Village Voice" is talking
about the arrival of the Swami,
right?
And now--
>> GREENE: Picked up fast.
≫> REGINA: Yeah,
picked up fast.
>> GREENE: Picked up very fast.
≫> REGINA: People of profile
are starting to about it Allen
Ginsberg.
>> GREENE: Allen
Ginsberg shows up.
And Ginsberg had been to India
already some years before
and had seen the chanting of the
Krishna mantra in the streets,
so he was familiar with that
already and had been chanting.
He was on the Alan
Burke TV show.
Burke was kind of like the
Johnny Carson of his day.
And would chant wherever
he would have poetry.
>> REGINA: Did he go on
William F. Buckley's show too?
≫> GREENE: He was
on the Buckley show.
>> REGINA: Chanting
Hare Krishna.
Which, can you imagine that?
I would love to see that
segment with William Buckley.
I can't even fathom
what that was like.
>> GREENE: Interesting
chanting, you've got there.
>> REGINA: Well, he certainly
propelled the notion of it
to the mainstream.
>> GREENE: He did.
≫> REGINA: Via
these media outlets.
>> GREENE: Ginsberg
was an important,
influential person
in those days.
Of course, he was kind of the
doyen of the hippie poetry
world.
And so he came to see Prabhupada
and gave him a harmonium,
which is how I got
started as well,
which was playing this
little keyboard instrument.
And whenever Ginsberg
had public events,
he would chant the
Krishna mantra.
It was picked up by musicians.
I mean, you have to remember--
>> REGINA: John Coltrane.
≫> GREENE: Coltrane had three
albums where he thanked mantra
meditation, and India, and yoga
for kind of weaning him off
of drug abuse.
>> REGINA: And then, of
course, George Harrison.
>> GREENE: Then George came
along and the whole thing
exploded.
>> REGINA: Now, the
whole thing's exploding.
>> GREENE: That's it.
>> REGINA: And now you have this
album out with Hare Krishna,
and people, teenagers, you know,
and young people all around
the country and world
listening to this.
>> GREENE: Well, you know,
God works in strange ways,
and he can work through
the Beatles as well.
So when George started chanting
and the Beatles went to India,
that was the game changer.
That's when things-- because
the whole post-war baby boomers,
as we were called, looked to
the Beatles and realized that,
all of a sudden, if
they're doing this,
there's got to be something here
in this chanting and in yoga.
Prior to that time,
say early '60s,
you could have opened
up any newspaper.
There wasn't one ad
for a yoga class.
There was no yoga.
>> REGINA: No.
No, there wasn't.
≫> GREENE: It wasn't there.
So this was very cutting
edge stuff back then.
>> REGINA: It really was.
And with this pickup
with the yoga,
with the music and
everything, now it's
starting to sift into
everyone's consciousness,
whether you know it or not.
You're listening to a pop
station, Hare Krishna's
playing, you know, as you say,
with some beats and all that.
And you just start
humming along.
And so we only have literally
a couple minutes left.
We've had such a
delightful conversation.
The time has flown.
But let's talk.
Let's do the epilogue
from this point.
It's made it into the
mass consciousness,
with resistance or
not with the people.
But nonetheless, the
prophecy was fulfilled.
>> GREENE: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Right?
≫> GREENE: Yeah, it was.
≫> REGINA: Hundreds
or more than 100 temples?
>> GREENE: So
there's 650 temples.
>> REGINA: 650 temples.
≫> GREENE: Krishna
temples now worldwide.
110 vegetarian
restaurants, farms.
And perhaps as significant,
if not more so, for me,
the penetration of
consciousness studies
into the fields of science--
neurology, cosmology, physics--
I think, is the long term
impact of Prabhupada's mission.
He would never have
claimed exclusive credit
for any of that,
but certainly he
did a mammoth job of
pushing forward the notion
that you, and I, and
everyone watching this
is an eternal spiritual being,
that consciousness is not
the product of chemistry in the
brain, interactions of forces
and subatomic
particles, that you
were something that existed
before this body came
into existence.
You will continue to exist
after this body can no
longer maintain consciousness.
You are eternal.
That will be, I believe,
the long term benefit.
>> REGINA: I think so as well.
And all these fields of study
have popped up around it.
The work of Michael Cremo, for
example, has popped up too.
>> GREENE: An old friend.
≫> REGINA: Yes.
I would assume that.
And in essence, putting the
rigorous Western scientific
rigor to spirituality
and finding that,
while it can't be
completely explained--
they're looking in the fields
of dark matter as spirit,
for example--
its being displayed, and it's
more understood than ever
that there's something grander
that creates and inspires,
that transcends this.
>> GREENE: That's what gets me
up every morning is that vision
of a purposeful, beneficent
universe that reflects
the beauty, the artistry,
the creative sensitivity
of the creator.
He and she.
Brings tears to my eyes.
>> REGINA: And I
can understand that.
That's the beauty of
life and the possibility
of a really beautiful
life even here on Earth.
Especially here on Earth.
This is a special place.
You did a beautiful job.
I just have to thank you for
all the work you did on the book
to really bring his
life to light, and all
your own journalistic rigor.
>> GREENE: Thank you very much.
>> REGINA: Again, the name of
the book is "Swami in a Strange
Land."
It's a fascinating
look into the life
of an incredibly patient,
faith-filled, and devotional
human being.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."